# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

> property.rb: lines 72, 84, 97; console.rb: 6, 15, 24

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

> Property.rb: line 16

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

> 33, 31, 22, 13, 4
>

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

> Because PG(?) will assign the ID.......?

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

> property.rb: line 32. 
>

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

> ID should only be added if there is already an ID assgned to the db. Because the ID may not have been generated yet if the entry is not yet saved to the database

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

> class methods are changing the whole class (delete everything, for example). Other methods are only for modifying a single entry (change address, for example)
>

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

> =>nil

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

> to prevent users from accessing the ruby code and sql directly.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

they take in the address via the $1 thing.

Q11. What are their return values?

Property hash